.\" Process this file with
.\" groff -man -Tascii foo.1
.\"
.TH AMQP 1 "Feb 2018" Linux "Publisher User Manuals"
.SH NAME
amqp-publisher \- sending messages and rpc via amqp 
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B amqp-publisher [options]
.I file
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B amqp-publisher
provides a commandline interface to the
.B python-pika
library. The encoding of the inputfile is transparency handled by reading as binary.
The amqp-RPC results can be stored in a file, print to STDOUT or an
.BR amqp-rpc-callback (1)
can be called.
.SH OPTIONS
.RE
.BR "Connection Arguments:"
.RS
.IP "-o, --host"
hostname or ip of the amqp-node (default: amqp.example.net)
.IP "-p, --port"
port to connect to (default: 5671)
.IP "-U, --username"
Username for authentication (default: guest)
.IP "-P, --password"
Password for authentication (default: guest)
.IP "--retry <count>"
Maximum number of retry attempts to connect to the server (default: 10)
.IP "--retrydelay <int>"
Time to wait in seconds, before the next connection retry (default: 1)
.IP "--sockettimeout <seconds>"
TCP Socket timeout in seconds (default: 0.25)

.RE
.BR "TLS Arguments:"
.RS
.IP "--tls"
Boolean flage to use certificates instead of username:password to connect to
the amqp-server
.IP "-c certfile"
When provided the username and password arguments are ignored and 
.I EXTERNAL
is used as authentification schem. The expected input format is
.I pem
(default: /etc/amqp/amqp.crt)
.IP "-k keyfile"
The corresponding private key of the certificate
(default: /etc/amqp/amqp.key)
.IP "-a cacert"
The CA to use for verifying the amqp-node certificate.
(default: /etc/amqp/cacert.crt)


.RE
.BR "RPC Arguments:"
.RS
.IP "--rpc"
Es wird von einem zweitem Dienst eine Antwort erwartet. Dieser zweite
dienst antwortet dann direkt an eine tmp exlusive Queue. Die Nachricht
die als Antwort verstanden wird, in eine tmp-datei geschrieben, und der
Pfad nach stdout ausgegeben
.IP "--rpc-timeout <int>"
How many seconds to wait for a reply. If a timeout occure it will be
communicated as 
.B exit 1
.IP "--rpc-targetfile <path>"
Write the the result to a targetfile.
.B Warning:
you may run into trouble when two publisher use the same targetfile at the same
time. See section
.B TARGETFILE
.IP "--rpc-callback <path>"
Execute an external program. This program is called with some commandline arguments.
See
.BR amqp-rpc-callback (1)
for description of them.
.IP "--rpc-callback-timeout <int>"
Maximum execution time of the callback in seconds.
.IP "--rpc-workdir <directory>"
Directory to store temporary files.
.IP "--rpc-nodelete"
Don't delete the temporary file used during callback processing. This is
also enabled when debugging with
.B -d

.RE
.BR "Message Arguments:"
.RS
.IP "-y, --vhost <str>"
Connect to the amqp-vhost
(default: /)
.IP "-x, --exchange <str>"
Publish Message to this exchange on the vhost. Use "" for empty
exchange, when responding to a reply_to propterie
(default: amq.topic
.IP "-r, --routingkey"
Set the routingkey of the message.
(default: rk.default)
.IP "-m, --deliverymode <1|2>"
Set the deliverymode. 1 transient | 2 persistent
(default: 2)
.IP "-f, --additional-field key=value"
Add additional key=value pairs to header of message. Can be called multible times.
.IP "-i, --priority <int>"
Assign a priority in range of 0-255 to the message.
The lowest priority is 0 which is the default.
The max-priority is defined as a property of the queue but cannot be larger then 255.
When a queue fills up the message with the highest priority is processed first.
.IP "-j, --appid"
sets the app_id property of the amqp-message. If the environment 
.B APPID
is specified it will be used.
 default: \\$APPID:${APPID};hostname:${HOSTNAME};user:${UID};cwd:${CWD};pid:${PID};ppid:{ParentPID}
.IP "-u, --userid <str>"
Sets the user_id propertie of the message. If set the amqp-node may checks if user_id and
connected user (CN in case of a certificate) are identical.
.IP "-R, --reply_to <str>"
Sets the reply_to property of the amqp-message.
.IP "-C, --correlation_id <str>"
Sets the correlation_id property of the amqp-message.
.IP "-V, --cluster_id"
Sets the cluster_id property of the amqp-message.
.IP "-M, --mimetype <mimetype,encoding>"
Set the mimetype and encoding properties of the message.
.I Example:
application/pdf,binary

the default is 'guess' which uses the gnu file utility to
guess the mimetype and encoding of the messagefile. If this
fails, the default is application/octet-stream,binary is
used

.RE
.BR "Mail Arguments:"

The pulisher is able to send mails if a critical error occurs.
.RS
.IP "--mail"
Boolean flag to enable mailsending
.IP "--mail-target <To:>"
default: trouble@example.net
.IP "--mail-source <From:>"
default: amqp@example.net
.IP "--mail-subject <Subject:>"
default: Amqp critical messages
.IP "--mail-host <host|ip>"
default: smtp.example.net
.IP "--mail-user <str>"
The username to use for mail authentification
.IP "--mail-password <str>"
The password to use for mail authentification

.RE
.BR "logging and debugging Arguments:"
.RS
.IP "-d, --debug"
Enable debugging for application and python-pika
.IP "-v, --verbose"
Enable verbose output
.IP "--version"
the versionstring

.RE
.BR "misc Arguments:"
.RS
.IP "-F, --fileprog <path>"
the location of the gnu file program to use to guess the mimetype.

.SH ENVIRONMENT
.IP APPID
added to the app_id propertie of the message.
.SH DIAGNOSTICS
Exit codes
.RS
0 everything fine

1 connection to amqp-node failed

2 timeout during rpc-connection

3 sending message failed
.RE
.SH BUGS
The command name should have been chosen more carefully
to reflect its purpose.
.SH AUTHOR

.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR amqp-rpc-callback (1)
.BR amqp-consumer (1)
.BR amqp-consumer-callback (1)

